Running the code is extremely simple, there is just one MATLAB script that is needed and an input image that can be any type of file. The image can also be in color, as I have included a line to make it a grayscale image within the script for accessibility.\
The potential user should download the project.m file from my GitHub repository “https://github.com/angelordonezretamar/CPE462project” to wherever they would like to keep the project. They should then download an image to perform the compression on, any size and any file type should work without needing to change the script. The image should be in the same directory as the MATLAB script to access it easily within the code.\
The potential user should now open MATLAB and select the folder where they have stored the project.m file and their image and open the script. In line 13 of the script, they will need to make a single edit to the file for it to work. Line 13 opens the image file, and the user will need to change (“guernica.jpg”) to their image file, supposing that they have placed it in the same folder as the MATLAB script. That is all the user needs to do before running the program.\
To run the program, the user should click on the green run button at the top of the MATLAB window, or type project into the command window, assuming they have not changed the name of the MATLAB script. The command window will then ask the user for the quantization step size, the user can input whatever they would like the step size to be, and the program will run. The command window returns a message when the encoding is completed and saves the bitstream as encoded_stream.mat and returns the peak signal-to-noise ratio. Finally, the program opens a window showing the original image side-by-side with the modified version.\
